---
permalink: /conclusions/
layout: page
menutitle: Conclusions
title: Conclusions
order: 4
---
While my primary goal of this web map was to provide a foundation of knowledge for users to draw their own conclusions about Syria or some of the specific sites, there are a few details I would like to highlight.

Damascus is the oldest, continuously inhabited city in the world. In my opinion, this is a fact that the average intelligent individual would like to know. But in reality, how many people truly know this? Before beginning this project, I was not even 100% sure of this fact. With evidence of inhabitation dating back to 10000 BCE (although the city was not significant until c. 3000 BCE), this city provides the world with thousands of continuous years of knowledge on human history. On a very basic level, we can track how life, government, and economic systems evolved and flourished over time, which is crucial to understanding the general timeline in human history. 

Continuing with this idea of early civilizations, ancient Mesopotamia is familiar to a sizable number of individuals. A large portion of American students will briefly learn about this place in their elementary/secondary school history classes. However, are people familiar with the fact that a significant portion of ancient Mesopotamia was located in Syria? Even I, as a half-Syrian third grader, did not know this until much later in life. Moreover, one of the most important towns in Mesopotamia, Mari, is located in eastern Syria, and excavations have unearthed over 25,000 tablets that have provided us will extremely valuable information about the settlement. Keeping with Mesopotamia, when asked to name the most powerful ancient civilizations (pre-Greek), you will probably get two responses: Mesopotamia and Egypt. However, there is a third that a criminally small number of people know about: Ebla. Its discovery proved the notion that there was a third ancient civilization equal to the aforementioned two and expelled the idea that there were only two important centers in the near east. 

Moving into the sites themselves, I hope this project has shown that Syria is home to some of the most important sites to some of the world’s major religions. Specific to Christianity, places that carry biblical significance include Mount Hermon and Bab Kissan. Mount Hermon is the potential location of the transfiguration of Christ, and Bab Kissan is the ancient city gate which St. Paul escaped through. Moreover, Dura Europos is home to the oldest house-church in the world, and many of the locations serve as major pilgrimage sites and carry modern importance, like holding the seat of a specific denomination of Christianity. For Islam, the country is home to the Umayyad Mosque, one of the largest, oldest, and most famous mosques in the world. Also, many of the mosques around the country are said to contain the remains of many important figures, like Zechariah, the father of John the Baptist, in the Great Mosque of Aleppo. Surprisingly, despite the conflict that exists between Syria and the general Jewish community today, the Central Synagogue of Aleppo has been the focus of many repair and renovation efforts from Jews worldwide, and previously was home to the famous Aleppo Codex. In addition to modern religions, sites across the country provide valuable insight into ancient Mesopotamian and Roman religions. 

As Syria continues to face widespread unrest and destruction from its Civil War, we need to ask ourselves, is it really okay to just sit back and watch? This “insignificant” Middle Eastern nation is truly one of the oldest places on Earth, and the longer that this conflict persists, the more likely it is that we will lose both religious and historical treasurers, and invaluable information about the past, forever. So, while this project primary goal is to serve as a foundation of knowledge, I hope that users now have the correct answer to this question: is Syria important?

